docs: add oauth for mcp (#9626)
langflow-ai/langflow: docs/docs/Concepts/mcp-server.mdx

Click <Icon name="key" aria-hidden="true"/> **Generate API key** to automatically insert a new Langflow API key into the code template.
Alternatively, you can replace `YOUR_API_KEY` with an existing Langflow API key.

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="OAuth" label="OAuth">

When OAuth is enabled, Langflow automatically starts an [MCP Composer](https://pypi.org/project/mcp-composer) instance for your project, creating a secure proxy between MCP clients and the `mcp-proxy` in front of your server.

To configure OAuth authentication:

1. Select **OAuth** as the authentication type.
2. Configure the OAuth settings with the values from your OAuth deployment:

   - **Host**: OAuth server host
   - **Port**: OAuth server port
   - **Server URL**: Full OAuth server URL
   - **Callback Path**: OAuth callback URL
   - **Client ID**: Your OAuth client identifier
   - **Client Secret**: Your OAuth client secret
   - **Authorization URL**: OAuth authorization endpoint
   - **Token URL**: OAuth token endpoint
   - **MCP Scope**: Scope for MCP operations

>    - **Provider Scope**: OAuth provider scope

Reviewer: Where do these values come from? What do I need to have done beforehand in order to have all of these values to hand? Which are required?

Reviewer: Thank you!

### MCP server authentication and environment variables {#authentication}

Each [Langflow project](/concepts-flows#projects) has its own MCP server with it's own MCP server authentication settings.

Langflow MCP servers support these authentication types.

To configure authentication for a Langflow MCP server, go to the **Projects** page in Langflow, click the **MCP Server** tab, click <Icon name="Fingerprint" aria-hidden="true"/> **Add Auth**, and then select your preferred authentication method:

<Tabs groupId="auth-type">
<TabItem value="API key" label="API key">

> When authenticating your MCP server with an Langflow API key, the code template in your project's **MCP Server** tab automatically includes the `--headers` and `x-api-key` arguments.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When authenticating your MCP server with an Langflow API key, your project's MCP server **JSON** code snippets automatically include the `--headers` and `x-api-key` arguments.
```

Reviewer 2: Idk if this means it only adds it to the JSON snippets or if it also adds it when you use auto-install.

To configure OAuth authentication:

1. Select **OAuth** as the authentication type.
2. Configure the OAuth settings with the values from your OAuth deployment:

   - **Host**: OAuth server host
   - **Port**: OAuth server port
   - **Server URL**: Full OAuth server URL
   - **Callback Path**: OAuth callback URL
   - **Client ID**: Your OAuth client identifier
   - **Client Secret**: Your OAuth client secret
   - **Authorization URL**: OAuth authorization endpoint
   - **Token URL**: OAuth token endpoint
   - **MCP Scope**: Scope for MCP operations
   - **Provider Scope**: OAuth provider scope

    The OAuth credentials are encrypted and stored securely in your Langflow database.

3. To complete server setup, click **Save**.
Your MCP server's JSON configuration is updated with OAuth values.

    An OAuth callback page will now appear each time your MCP client attempts to authenticate with the server.
    A successful authentication displays `Authentication complete. You may close this window.`

> 4. After enabling OAuth, you need to update your MCP client configuration to use the new OAuth settings.

Reviewer 2: This step 4 is conflicting slightly with line 227.

    The client update method depends on how the client was installed.

>     - **Auto install**: Manually update your client's config file using the updated JSON snippet from the **JSON** tab, or repeat the steps in [Auto-install](#connect-clients-to-use-the-servers-actions) to re-install the client with the updated settings.

Reviewer 2: Can you re-auto install? When I try it, I get a ✅ and then I can't figure out how to repeat the installation.

Author: Yes, it should work

    - **JSON option**: Copy the updated JSON snippet from the **JSON** tab and replace your existing configuration.
    - **New connections**: Use either **Auto install** or **JSON** option. The OAuth settings are included automatically.

> 

Reviewer 2: I think line 229 and 230 should be here, after you apply OAuth.

Each [Langflow project](/concepts-flows#projects) has its own MCP server with its own MCP server authentication settings.

To configure authentication for a Langflow MCP server, go to the **Projects** page in Langflow, click the **MCP Server** tab, click <Icon name="Fingerprint" aria-hidden="true"/> **Edit Auth**, and then select your preferred authentication method:

<Tabs groupId="auth-type">
<TabItem value="API key" label="API key">

When authenticating your MCP server with a Langflow API key, your project's MCP server **JSON** code snippets and **Auto install** configuration automatically include the `--headers` and `x-api-key` arguments.

Click <Icon name="key" aria-hidden="true"/> **Generate API key** to automatically insert a new Langflow API key into the code template.
Alternatively, you can replace `YOUR_API_KEY` with an existing Langflow API key.

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="OAuth" label="OAuth">

When OAuth is enabled, Langflow automatically starts an [MCP Composer](https://pypi.org/project/mcp-composer) instance for your project, creating a secure proxy between MCP clients and the `mcp-proxy` in front of your server.

> OAuth integration allows your Langflow MCP server to authenticate users and applications through any OAuth 2.0 compliant service. When users or applications connect to your MCP server, they'll be redirected to your chosen OAuth provider to authenticate, and upon successful authentication, they'll be granted access to your flows as MCP tools.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
OAuth integration allows your Langflow MCP server to authenticate users and applications through any OAuth 2.0 compliant service. When users or applications connect to your MCP server, they are redirected to your chosen OAuth provider to authenticate. Upon successful authentication, they are granted access to your flows as MCP tools.
```

Before configuring OAuth in Langflow, you must first set up an OAuth application with an external OAuth 2.0 service provider.
During this setup, you'll register your Langflow server as an OAuth client and obtain the required credentials.
The example values use [GitHub OAuth](https://github.com/settings/developers), but your deployment may vary.

<details closed>

> <summary>Where do I find the OAuth values?</summary>

Author: That's a good point. They just take up a lot of room. I'll remove the details

### MCP server authentication and environment variables {#authentication}

Each [Langflow project](/concepts-flows#projects) has its own MCP server with its own MCP server authentication settings.

To configure authentication for a Langflow MCP server, go to the **Projects** page in Langflow, click the **MCP Server** tab, click <Icon name="Fingerprint" aria-hidden="true"/> **Edit Auth**, and then select your preferred authentication method:

<Tabs groupId="auth-type">
<TabItem value="API key" label="API key">

When authenticating your MCP server with a Langflow API key, your project's MCP server **JSON** code snippets and **Auto install** configuration automatically include the `--headers` and `x-api-key` arguments.

Click <Icon name="key" aria-hidden="true"/> **Generate API key** to automatically insert a new Langflow API key into the code template.
Alternatively, you can replace `YOUR_API_KEY` with an existing Langflow API key.

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="OAuth" label="OAuth">

> When OAuth is enabled, Langflow automatically starts an [MCP Composer](https://pypi.org/project/mcp-composer) instance for your project, creating a secure proxy between MCP clients and the `mcp-proxy` in front of your server.

Reviewer 3: Technically we have an `mcp-composer` on the client-side as well instead of `mcp-proxy`. That's only the case for oauth-enabled servers now. It's purely a technical detail though, doesn't affect usage at all.

    The client update method depends on how you installed the server on the client:

    - **Auto install**: Manually update your client's config file using the updated JSON snippet from the **JSON** tab, or repeat the steps in [Auto-install](#connect-clients-to-use-the-servers-actions) to re-install the client with the updated settings.
    - **JSON option**: Copy the updated JSON snippet from the **JSON** tab and replace your existing configuration.
    - **New connections**: Use either the **Auto install** or **JSON** option. The OAuth settings are included automatically.

    An OAuth callback page will now appear each time your MCP client attempts to authenticate with the server.
    A successful authentication displays `Authentication complete. You may close this window.`
</TabItem>
<TabItem value="None" label="None">

When no authentication is configured, your MCP server becomes a public endpoint that anyone can access without providing credentials.
Only use this option when Langflow is running in a trusted environment.

</TabItem>

> </Tabs>

Reviewer 3: Possibly worth adding an FAQ - sometimes to get the oauth popup in browser, you need to restart the client (cursor, etc)

Author: Added
